# OFFICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:

**Aim/accomplishment of project:**
- Reduce the amount of manual data entry by admin/user.
- Most modules/pages require the admin to input just the ID of employee, rest of the data is auto-fed and displayed on the system.
- Major application of this can be seen in Payroll Management module where the admin just enters the Employee ID and his payment along with PF,taxes,basic salary,allowances is calculated.
- The information of his leaves is gathered for that month is retrieved for that month and appropriate deductions are applied and displayed automatically.



**MODULES:**

**Employee Management**:
- Automatic unique ID allocation while registering new employees.
- Validation of phone number,email, other information.
- Updating existing employee records and information.
- Removal of existing employee information/records.
- Viewing employee records and generating reports by applying different filters based on postion/salary/age/joining date , etc as required.
 

**Leave Application Management System**:
- Employees can apply for leaves which are stored and will later affect Payroll management module in the same month.
- Leaves can be of various types such as paid/personal/maternity/personal/etc.
- Reports can be generated by admin to view the number of employee leaves in specific month , etc.

**Payroll management:**

- Automated Payroll calculation with leave deduction and payroll receipt generation.
- Leave reports,types of leaves,current salary, all the information is gathered and appropriate deductions/additions are applied.
- Receipt is generated with all related information and time in pdf format.
- Admin can view the total amount of salary paid in each month with specific filters.
 

**Work-shift Management System:**

- Add new workshifts,Change existing workshift timings,Change an employees workshift.
- Admin can view and manage balance in workshifts by viewing count in each shift.

**Technologies used:**
- Visual Studio 
- ASP.NET
- C#
- CSS 
- MySQL.
